[docs] Clarify and consolidate similar internal distribution guides (#34618)
expo/expo: docs/pages/build/internal-distribution.mdx

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="iOS: Ad Hoc distribution">

Apple offers [ad hoc provisioning profiles](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev7ccaf4d3c) to distribute your app to test devices once they have been registered
to your Apple Developer account. This method requires a paid Apple Developer account and that account will only be able to use this method to distribute to at most 100 iPhones per year.

You will need to know the UDID (Unique Device Identifier) of each device that will install your app, which may be challenging if you try to share with someone who is not a developer. Adding a new device will require a rebuild of your app.

Setting up Ad Hoc certificates correctly can be intimidating if you haven't done it before and tedious even if you have. If you're using [EAS Build](/build/internal-distribution/), which is optimized for Expo and React Native projects, we'll handle the time-consuming parts of setting up Ad Hoc credentials for you.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="iOS: Enterprise distribution">

> If your app is only intended for internal use and will not be distributed through the App Store, you should use Enterprise distribution. Unlike with Ad Hoc Distribution, the number of devices that can install your app is unlimited, and you do not need to manage each device's UDID. Enterprise Distribution requires membership in the more expensive [Apple Developer Enterprise Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs/enterprise/), which requires your organization to be a legal entity and go through Apple's verification process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your app is only intended for internal use by employees of a large organization and cannot be distributed through the App Store, you should use Enterprise distribution. Unlike with Ad Hoc Distribution, the number of devices that can install your app is unlimited, and you do not need to manage each device's UDID. Often these apps will be distributed to end users through a mobile device management (MDM) solution. Enterprise Distribution requires membership in the [Apple Developer Enterprise Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs/enterprise/). Organizations joining the Enterprise Program must meet additional requirements beyond what is required for App Store distribution.
```
Trying to reinforce the specialized use case. Someones folks think just being a large company that wants to distribute a test version internally is enough, or otherwise think the Enterprise Program is something it's not. Realistically, if you try to distribute an app through the Enterprise Program that isn't intended for it, you'll get rejected; and, if you try to distribute an app on the App Store that is only intended for employees of a single company to use in their job role, you'll (usually) get rejected and steered towards the Enterprise Program.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="iOS: TestFlight">

TestFlight is another option to distribute your app to iOS devices. TestFlight also requires a paid Apple Developer account, but allows you to share your app with up to 10,000 users that can be invited with their email or a public link. This method requires you to [upload your app](/submit/ios) to App Store Connect and wait for the automated review before you can share a build. If you intend to ship new builds frequently, investing the time to set up Ad Hoc distribution will be worthwhile.

</Collapsible>

## Internal distribution with EAS Build

Setting up an internal distribution build only takes a few minutes with EAS Build and provides a streamlined way to share your app with your team and testers for feedback.

The setup requires configuring a build profile in the **eas.json** configuration file and setting `"distribution": "internal"` to a build profile. This configuration automatically generates **.apk** files for Android and **.ipa** files for iOS so that they can be installed on devices directly and do not require a development server to run the app.

> For Android, the setup uses the Android keystore or can re-use the previously generated keystore for a [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/). However, iOS requires an ad hoc provisioning profile that explicitly allows devices to run that app based on that device's UDID. This can be done using `eas device:create` when creating a new build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Android, EAS Build will generate a new Android keystore for signing the APK, or it will use an existing one if the package name is the same as your [development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/). For iOS, EAS Build will generate an ad hoc provisioning profile that explicitly allows devices to run that app based on that device's UDID. This can be done using `eas device:create` when creating a new build.
```

See the tutorial on Internal distribution with EAS Build below for more information on how to configure, create, and install a build:

<BoxLink
  title="Create and share internal distribution build"
  description="Complete step-by-step guide to setting up and sharing internal distribution builds with EAS Build."
  href="/tutorial/eas/internal-distribution-builds/"
  Icon={GraduationHat02DuotoneIcon}
/>

### Automation on CI (optional)

> It's possible to run internal distribution builds non-interactively in CI using the `--non-interactive` flag. However, if you are using ad hoc provisioning on iOS you will not be able to add new devices to your provisioning profile when using this flag. After registering a device through `eas device:create`, you need to run `eas build` interactively and authenticate with Apple for EAS to add the device to your provisioning profile. [Learn more about triggering builds from CI](/build/building-on-ci).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to run internal distribution builds non-interactively in CI using the `--non-interactive` flag. However, if you are using ad hoc provisioning on iOS you will not be able to add new devices to your provisioning profile when using this flag. After registering a device through `eas device:create`, you need to run `eas build` interactively and authenticate with Apple in order for EAS to add the device to your provisioning profile. [Learn more about triggering builds from CI](/build/building-on-ci).
```
I can't articulate a grammar rule that specifies this, but intuitively feels needed (prevents you from accidentally reading "Apple for EAS" as a noun, perhaps?)

{/* (@dsokal) this is not implemented yet */}

> {/* When using iOS ad hoc provisioning managed by Expo, if a teammate navigates to this URL on an iOS device that is not yet registered, they will be able to register their device and initiate a new build to include the updated profile that will run on their device. If the ad hoc provisioning profile is not managed by Expo, the user will be asked to contact the organization admin to add their device UDID and create a new build compatible with their device. */}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{/* When using iOS ad hoc provisioning managed by Expo, if a teammate navigates to this URL on an iOS device that is not yet registered, they will be able to register their device and initiate a new build to include the updated profile that will run on their device. If the ad hoc provisioning profile is not managed by Expo, the user will be asked to contact the organization admin to add their device UDID and create a new build compatible with their device. */}
```
👀
